Fall Event Blog Post (#201)
NCAR/esds: posts/2022/esds-fall-event.md

---
author: Julia Kent
date: 2022-10-10
tags: tutorial hackathon events
---

> # ESDS Fall Event

Reviewer: We can use the title offered by Katie at the last ESDS committee meeting: 

A (Re)Introduction to Earth System Data Science (ESDS) Across NCAR/UCAR/UCP

unless there is an alternative from the folks?

ESDS is hosting a fall event **November 9th and 10th** (Wednesday-Thursday). This event will be hybrid, in-person in NCAR's Mesa Lab Main Seminar Room and virtual over Zoom.

The ESDS Fall Event will cover a (re)introduction to ESDS and Python tutorials (open to the community). Particular emphasis will be placed on the skills needed to best leverage the GeoCAT Python stack. The event will culminate in a hackathon (NCAR/UCAR personnel only) at the end of the second day.

Here is an approximate content schedule:

Day 1:

- Intro to ESDS
- Python Intro and Workspace Set Up
- Python Syntax Basics
- Numpy
- Data Visualization
- Xarray

> - Dasy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Dask
```

> - Dask

Reviewer: Should we put any forum, Q&A to the end of day1? cc @matt-long @katiedagon @clyne

Author: @dcherian @hCraker @dcamron and myself are discussing making these events a "flipped classroom" so we request that participants watch an existing tutorial recording and then the session is all Q&A.

Reviewer: Oh, yeah, flipped classroom idea for this morning part sounds great! I was referring to more of an ESDS-wise forum or Q&A in the afternoon to listen to the audience about ESDS efforts and events so far, ESDS future, maybe discuss the answers to our questions that we will put into the registration link, etc.

Day 2:

- Intro to GeoCAT
- GeoCAT-viz
- GeoCAT-comp
- UXarray

> - WRF-Python)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- WRF-Python
```

---
author: Julia Kent

> date: 2022-10-10

Reviewer: 2022-10-18

tags: tutorial hackathon events
---

# A (Re)Introduction to Earth System Data Science (ESDS) Across NCAR/UCAR/UCP

> ESDS is hosting a (Re)Introduction to Earth System Data Science (ESDS) Across NCAR/UCAR/UCP on **November 9th and 10th** (Wednesday-Thursday). This event will be hybrid, in-person in NCAR's Mesa Lab Main Seminar Room and virtual over Zoom.

Reviewer: November 10th and 11th (Thursday-Friday)

> ESDS is hosting a (Re)Introduction to Earth System Data Science (ESDS) Across NCAR/UCAR/UCP on **November 9th and 10th** (Wednesday-Thursday). This event will be hybrid, in-person in NCAR's Mesa Lab Main Seminar Room and virtual over Zoom.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ESDS is hosting a (Re)Introduction to Earth System Data Science (ESDS) Across NCAR/UCAR/UCP on **November 10th and 11th** (Thursday-Friday). This event will be hybrid, in-person in NCAR's Mesa Lab Main Seminar Room and virtual over Zoom.
```

> The ESDS Fall Event will cover a (re)introduction to ESDS and Python tutorials (open to the community). Particular emphasis will be placed on the skills needed to best leverage the GeoCAT Python stack. The event will culminate in a hackathon (NCAR/UCAR personnel only) at the end of the second day.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ESDS Fall Event will cover a (re)introduction to the NCAR ESDS Initiative and include breakout groups and discussions on Python packages and analysis needs. The event will culminate in a hackathon (NCAR/UCAR personnel only) at the end of the second day.
```

Here is an approximate content schedule:

Day 1:

- Intro to ESDS
- Python Intro and Workspace Set Up
- Python Syntax Basics\*
- Numpy\*
- Data Visualization\*
- Xarray\*

> - Dask\*

Reviewer: After moving GeoCAT into Day 1, both these and GeoCAT items might look too much. Maybe combine the items from "Python Intro and Workspace Set Up" to "Dask" into one or two bullets only?

> - Intro to ESDS
> - Python Intro and Workspace Set Up
> - Python Syntax Basics\*
> - Numpy\*
> - Data Visualization\*
> - Xarray\*
> - Dask\*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Intro to ESDS
- Python Intro and Workspace Set Up
- Python Syntax Basics\*
- Breakout groups on Numpy, Visualization, Xarray, and Dask\*
```

Day 2:

> - Intro to GeoCAT

Reviewer: Move all the GeoCAT content to Day 1

- GeoCAT-viz
- GeoCAT-comp
- UXarray
- WRF-Python

> - GeoCAT on NCAR's HPC clusters

Reviewer: We can remove this and leave it to Day 2 maybe.

Author: I am confused if you want this in Day 1 or Day 2?

Reviewer: Okay, I have removed that at all.

> - Hackathon (UCAR/NCAR only)

Reviewer: Maybe add into Day 2:

- Opening (or something like that, which could introduce a few hack ideas and form groups based on people's interests?)

> - Hackathon (UCAR/NCAR only)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Hackathon and focused group discussions (UCAR/NCAR only)
```

* Starred events are planned to have a "flipped classrooom" format, where participants will be asked to watch tutorial recordings ahead of time, and we will go over use cases, Q&A, and individual trouble shooting on each topic during its session.

> Stay tuned for an announcement when **registration opens on October, 14th**.

Reviewer 3: should pause till we figure out a date.

Reviewer: "when **registration opens on October, 20th**" would be realistic I believe. I will check if that could be done earlier
